# Bertoti

1° - We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play. On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change. In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about scale and efficiency, both for the software we produce as well as for the organization that is producing it. Finally, as software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth.
É possível ver uma grande diferença na engenharia de software para o desenvolvimento de um software, no tempo e escala. Onde os desenvolvedores tem que se preocuparem mais com o tempo e a necessidade de mudanças futuras e na engenharia de software precisa estar mais atento na escala e eficiência do projeto, sendo os dois muito importantes para a organização de uma construção de um software.

2° - Within Google, we sometimes say, “Software engineering is programming integrated over time.” Programming is certainly a significant part of software engineering: after all, programming is how you generate new software in the first place. If you accept this distinction, it also becomes clear that we might need to delineate between programming tasks (development) and software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance). The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren’t squares, distance isn’t velocity. Software engineering isn’t programming.
Hoje em dia, é muito dito que engenharia de software e programação foram integrados ao longo do tempo. Sendo a programação a parte mais significante da engenharia de software, mas na verdade engenharia de software não é programação e vai muito além disso.
